so in this video we're going to see how to
run the sqlite command line shell on
a mac if you're using Windows refer to
the previous video if you're using linux
then actually refer to the video after
this one where we actually set up for
those relevant operating systems but if
you're on a Mac you're in the right
place so writing database code
straightaway isn't the easiest way to
learn about sqlite and the sql
language if you get errors you have to
work out then if the errors in your code
or the sql statements that you've
used so what we're going to do is we're
going to start out by using the sqlite
command line shell so that we can create
databases and use sql commands
directly now on a Mac turns out this is
really really easy and that's because
the sqlite command line shell is already
installed on a mac so there's really
nothing else we need to do to be able to
get to be able to get that up
and running so just to confirm that it
is working
open a terminal session and you can do
that by holding a command pressing space
that will open that screen up there and we
type terminal press enter that
loads the terminal screen and to test
that we've got a sql lite that's
sqlite is installed....
...press ENTER and you
can see that we've got some
text showing on the screen there you can
see that sqlite three is actually
successfully installed now don't worry
if you see slightly different version
numbers there this program is updated
from time to time but to so long as
you actually can see that it has started
a program and it looks like it's working
then we're good to go
so at this point we can quit out of this
by typing . quite going to type
exit to close down the command shell and
that's going to close down the terminal
window and at this point we're good to go
so skip the next video unless for some
reason you also want to install sqlite
three on a linux machine and the
video after that we then actually go ahead
and start using sqlite so i'll see
you in the next video